Disallow serializing concurrency primitives (#36585)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/releases/upgrading/upgrading_version_9.adoc

. Run `gradle wrapper --gradle-version {gradleVersion}` to update the project to {gradleVersion}.
. Try to run the project and debug any errors using the <<troubleshooting.adoc#troubleshooting, Troubleshooting Guide>>.

[[changes_9.5.0]]
== Upgrading from 9.4.0 and earlier

=== Potential breaking changes

==== Concurrency synchronization primitives can no longer be serialized by the configuration cache

Configuration cache serialization now emits a proper problem when attempting to serialize most of Java's standard concurrency synchronization primitives.
This includes classes and interfaces in `java.util.concurrent` and `java.util.concurrent.locks` packages, such as `ReentrantLock`, `CountDownLatch`, `SynchronousQueue`, etc.
Due to the isolation between tasks imposed by the configuration cache it is impossible to use those correctly for cross-task synchronization:
each task uses its own instance of, for example, a lock, and no synchronization occurs.

Prior to that, you may have seen `java.lang.reflect.InaccessibleObjectException` being thrown when attempting to serialize those classes.

> Consider using <<build_services.adoc#build_services, shared build services>> to wrap the shared state when extra synchronization is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your build requires shared, synchronized state, use <<build_services.adoc#build_services, shared build services>>, which are explicitly designed for safe coordination between tasks.
```

> You can find more information about types unsupported by configuration cache in the <<configuration_cache_requirements.adoc#config_cache:requirements:disallowed_types, documentation>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete list of types that are incompatible with the Configuration Cache, see the <<configuration_cache_requirements.adoc#config_cache:requirements:disallowed_types, documentation>>.
```
